# Synchromatic2
The natural synchronizing effects of the lunar cycle on female menstrual cycles are scientifically documented. The magnetism of the moon as it orbits the Earth causes tides to rise, and bodies of water to swell, when the moon is full. In a woman whose menstrual cycle is naturally synchronized with the lunar cycle, this is the time when her uterine lining will at it's thickest, rich with blood and nutrients. This is the time of ovulation. If a pregnancy does not occur, the lining will shed as the uterus purges all the nutrients and water it absorbed over the cycle. This is the time of the new moon when tides are low. Although human females are of the few species with "concealed estrus", this synchronization with the moon is hypothesized to have allowed women to track their fertility and menstruation, since the dawn of humanity. In modern times, we have apps that allow us to track our periods on a calendar and tell us small synopses of what we might be feeling that day as a result of hormone levels. I love to make things by hand, I am going to create a calendar with all the information you could need about each day in the menstrual cycle, that could be used as a daily biohack reference (for emotional awareness, fertility tracking, period preparedness etc.).  I want to display all this information in a beautiful, discrete aesthetic that will disguise the true purpose of the biohack calendar as a piece of art, as well as pay homage to the lunar cycle. To arrive at the solution of packing all that biological information into a small, pretty lunar calendar, I used my faculties of synesthesia. Each pieace of information in the calendar has a story, a color, a smell, a meaning to it. Therefore, I decided to represent each day as a rainbow of color representing the array of symptoms, levels of each hormone and helpful hints, as a slice in the pie in the circular lunar calendar. There is a key to the calendar that reveals what each color represents.   Link to video powerpoint presentation --->    https://vimeo.com/328325938
